# Sam Dayball CS499 ePortfolio

## Code Review

A code review is a vital part of the software development lifecycle.  Code review involves doing just what the name would imply and reviewing either your own code or code from one of your peers.  This would involve checking for any syntax errors, or looking for functions that were written that may be redundant or any security vulnerabilities such as infinite loops or unrestricted user inputs.  This is a wide range of items to be reviewing for and during the code review it is important to point out any areas where you may question what the functionality is because another important part of the SDLC is to comment your code so that others can be clear on what your code is doing.
	Code review is an important practice for computer science professionals because this is a great way of proof reading our code so that we are not releasing sloppy or disfunctional code into production environments. It also is a great way to learn how to code better. By reading other users code you can help pick up on tricks they may know that you do not.  On the other hand, having someone correct your code will help you learn what pitfalls and mistakes to avoid in the future.  Overall, doing code reviews is beneficial for everyone involved and is an important process to maintain throughout your career.
	This occurs after initial code is written and tested.  This can be done by yourself or you can have a peer review your code with you and provide additional insight.  Ideally this should always be done prior to deploying your code to a live or production environment to avoid any conflicts with live code.
	Some best practices that I would advocate for include leaving plenty of notes while reviewing. As soon as you see something that should be fixed, corrected or adjusted you should note it immediately.  It is very easy to forget about small things the more you read through code so if you can note them and do so in a way where it stands out from normal code comments this will help you not miss any areas that need to be corrected.  Also, I would recommend doing code review with people you trust to be honest with you. This is important because if people do not want to hurt feelings or step on toes then this could lead to issues where they do not mention something that needs to be fixed or done in a better way for fear of how it may make you feel. On the other side of that I always advocate for being fully honest when reviewing someone else’s code as it does not help anyone learn in the long run if you don’t speak up.


**Portfolio Links**
